as william butler yeats said education
is not the filling of a pail but rather
the lighting of a fire that is why
education is so important it's about
finding something that lights something
in you it's that spark that spark gives
you energy it gives you the drive to
really go in and learn and when you have
that drive and you're really getting
great at a topic you're passing other
people you're becoming more capable of
things that other people are simply not
capable of you can bring into this world
something others
but it started with that spark it
started with something becoming a fire
it's not about gaining the knowledge
it's about having the energy the
excitement the enthusiasm to see it
through and when you understand that
that is the point of Education to build
something to create something to touch a
life to change people to change yourself
if you want to really alter the fabric
of society of humanity to make this
place better you've got to be on fire
you've got to want it so bad that you're
gonna fight through all of the things
that are coming for you all of that
inertia all of the things that are going
to work against you life is going to
push back but when you're on fire for
something you'll keep going until you
get to your end you'll keep pursuing
that knowledge until you know enough to
bend the world to your will and as
Jonathan Winter said if your ship
doesn't come in swim out to meet it
that's the fire that's the energy I'm
talking about the reason that people
don't do that is when they're standing
on the shore and all they have awaiting
them at the end is more knowledge
filling the pail and they look at the
ocean before them and think about
stepping into the cold water how hard
it's going to be to swim against the
current they don't dare to go in
I or when you love something when you're
passionate about it when it's playtime
for you when you just want to do it when
it doesn't matter what other people
think when it doesn't matter if they're
making fun of you because it's something
that you care about you just do it's in
you the fire was lit then all of a
sudden you will swim up and that's why
people tell you pursue your passion
because when you're on fire the things
that you can do are astonishing
astonishing and that's what we all want
the most powerful human emotion is all
we want to leave ourselves and ah've
what we're capable of but to reach that
level we've got to be on fire so
approach knowledge like that don't think
of it as filling the pail think of it as
being lit on fire so if it doesn't light
you on fire move on to the next and the
next and the next and the next until you
find it because there is something for
everyone
that will light you on fire and once
you're lit just watch what you can do
and once you're burning just watch what
you can do and once you have that just
watch what you can do
everybody wants to be successful but
virtually nobody understands that
success is a path it's a process it's
not a finish line it's not something
that you do once and then you finish it
is literally the systematic acquisition
of skills and as Scott Adam said every
skill you acquire doubles your odds of
success and that's it that's the secret
if you really want to do something in
your life if you really want to be great
if you want to smash it if you want to
be remembered the key is to acquire as
many skills as you can because
everything that you bring into your
world gives you an exponentially greater
chance of winning of doing the thing
that you want to do but you have to be
totally focused and committed on gaining
those skills and as the rock pointed out
success at anything will always come
down to this focus and effort and we
control both once you understand that
that's what you have to do you have to
get control of yourself you have to stay
focused on something you have to learn
the discipline and apply it on your path
to success to acquire the skills that
you want to acquire that it is going to
demand of you that you work harder you
work smarter and you work longer than
anybody else and that's the [__]
secret there really is no grand mystery
if you want to be successful if you want
to do something other people can't do
you have to become capable of the
extraordinary you have to become capable
of doing something that other people
can't and that is the best possible news
I could give you
because it doesn't matter what you're
born with it doesn't even matter who you
are what matters is who you want to
become and the price that you're willing
to pay to get there and let me tell you
this the price is known and that price
is the acquisition of skills that price
is getting so good that people can
ignore you that price is being able to
beat anyone at the game that you've
chosen to play once you get to that
point once people stand back in awe when
they watch what you're doing then you
will have won then success will be yours
but it was in no uncertain terms the
result of the path that you walked and
as Angela Duckworth notes enthusiasm is
common but endurance is rare so when you
sneak out that first lead when you get
ahead of people and you think hey I've
acquired the skill I've done something
people are looking at me like I can't be
stopped remember that right now at this
moment someone is practicing well you're
not doing the thing that you need to be
doing while you're sitting back in your
laws very happy with what you've
accomplished somebody else is going to
eat your lunch because they have a
passion and enthusiasm that endures and
at the end of the day if you can want
something so badly if you [__] burn
from the inside to do something to
become something to become capable of
more then you
then you'll be able to push past the
people then when other people break and
they lie in your wake you will push
forward because that [__] thing in
you that you have cultivated is the
ability to endure it is not the ability
to be a badass it is not the ability to
think that you're cool it is the ability
to kick your own ass to deal with what
is boring to live in the pain to step
towards anguish to know that suffering
is a choice and you choose to turn it
off because you know on the other side
on the other side of endurance on the
other side of out lasting everybody else
is a skillset that makes you unstoppable
[Music]
as Derek Jeter said there may be people
who have more talent than you but
there's no excuse for anyone to work
harder than you do at the end of the day
whether you believe in talent or not is
completely irrelevant
everyone should believe in hard work
everything in your life is literally a
result of that you're born an infant a
lump of flesh that can't even hold its
own head up and yet somehow by
practicing by learning by growing you're
able to get better you're literally
incapable of anything when you're born
every skill that you have in your life
all the things that you take for granted
at one point you couldn't do them so
understanding that humans truly are an
adaptation machine and that they are
capable of acquiring any skill that they
want but it requires hard work it
requires that you do the reps it
requires that you put in the effort and
at the end of the day the people that
you're going to surpass are not going to
be the people that have less talent than
you maybe they even have more talent
than you it's going to be the people
that you're willing to out work but
until you're willing to outwork them
you're always going to be stuck this
John Irving said to do anything really
well you have to overextend yourself and
that's the key if you want to put in an
extraordinary performance if you want to
absolutely dazzle people
then you have to do something amazing
you have to be willing to put yourself
out there you have to be willing to do
things that other people think are gonna
break you that other people simply
believe there's no way that you could be
able to pull that off that the human
animal just is not capable of the links
to which you are professing to go and
when you profess it you have to be
willing to back it up and you have to
put yourself on that March knowing in no
uncertain terms under no circumstances
and for no reason whatsoever would you
ever be willing to back down and when
you go in with that level of certainty
then and only then are you actually
gonna be able to pull this off and this
Billie Jean King said champions keep
playing until they get it right
fatigue will literally chip away at your
will to win it is the thing inside of
your mind that weak voice that tells you
that you're not going to be able to make
it the weak voice that begs you to stop
and the weak voice that promises safety
and security if you would just quit and
here's the worst part about that it's
right
if you quit right now if you stop just
sit down relax you're not at risk
anymore you're not a risk of
embarrassment you're not a risk of
failure
but you're also not a risk of greatness
if you really want to achieve something
you've gotta find ways to put yourself
at risk of something great happening
you've got to put yourself at risk of
overextending yourself you've got to be
willing to face that you may die that
you may actually fall and here's the
thing for the people that dismiss that
that say they would never put themselves
in that situation then you have limits
and make no mistake those limits are
self placed and for the people that are
willing to push that for people that are
willing to go beyond that for people who
understand there are things in this
world that they're prepared to die for
and it is the thing that they put at the
center of their life it is the thing
that they are living for but they're not
gonna stop and they understand that
we're the human mind thinks it will
break is far short of where it will
actually break but before you can find
that point you've got to be willing to
push yourself you've got to be willing
to go harder and farther than anybody
thinks is reasonable or sensible that's
the path and so the question is can you
be thought of fooled the question is do
you believe in something so much that
you would put yourself at risk like that
the question is can you face down
everyone including the weak voice inside
of your own mind to make the world come
true that you want to see come true
because at the end of the day nobody's
going
for you so if you're a champion keep
going until it's done
[Music]
[Applause]
the first step in really empowering
yourself the first step in really going
beyond what you thought as possible is
actually to stop judging other people to
stop looking at them and trying to put
them in a box because as you build boxes
to put other people into you inevitably
put yourself into a box as Yoda says
judge me by my size do you
if you're looking at other people and
making judgments about all the external
things you can't help but begin the
signal against yourself you can't help
but begin to see yourself in the
limitations of other people and as you
cram people into those boxes and see
them as these finite and capable beings
it cannot help but reflect back on you
so instead as Han Solo said never tell
me the odds never tell me what box I
mean never tell me what I'm up against
never tell me about your limitations
never tell me about my limitations
because that my friends is what you have
to break free from you have to see past
limitations and see only potential you
can't be looking at what the chances are
that you're gonna get through something
you have to know in your heart of hearts
somehow some way you have prepared
yourself well enough you will get
through this moment you will find
something on the other side you will
reach in and you will find that grit and
you will know at that moment that all of
your preparation has led to this moment
and as long as you've done the work as
long as you've understood that every
moment leading up to this has been about
practice it's been about putting in the
work it's
about having the discipline to do the
things that other people are not willing
to do so when the game time comes you're
ready and the only thing the odds could
ever do is hope to [__] you up because
you are capable of the one-in-a-million
you're capable of the one-in-a-billion
you're capable of that because you've
forced yourself to be because you've
prepared yourself because you got out of
the box because you refuse to see
limitations because the only thing you
focus on is how to develop the only
thing you focus on is your ability to
get better over time through consistency
and practice so remember as Yoda says do
or do not there is no try
there is simply the belief that you're
going to be able to make it happen that
you have the skills that you're going to
need to be able to execute in those
moments if you let doubt creep in in
those moments of what you're focused on
is a potential failure then you will
fail but in those moments if you know
that you're ready that you have prepared
for that moment that there is no such
thing as luck that you have everything
you need right here in this moment to be
able to execute then just do it don't
hesitate don't wait don't [__] blink
just get in there and do it and don't
worry about the outcome because the only
outcome is victory on a long enough
timeline the only outcome is victory
when you believe in yourself enough to
keep going the only outcome is victory
when you don't let anything distract you
you close your eyes you take the shot
and you hit it
whether it's one-in-a-million or not
that's preparation that's readiness
that's showing up may the fourth be with
you
[Music]
everyone takes the limits of their own
vision for the limits of the world
Arthur Chopin our there is all around
you right now the reflections of your
world belief they're so ever-present
that you don't even see them all the
assumption that you've made about the
world the things that are possible what
you're capable of who you are the very
definition of what it means to be alive
all of it is completely invisible and
you're mistaken
what you have for what could be and once
you break free of that once you
understand that right now you're a
moment in time and that you have latent
potential and that latent potential can
be expressed in the form of skills that
you can get good at things that you can
develop yourself in any direction that
brain plasticity alone is one of the
greatest weapons that you're not using
but you have to move beyond what you can
perceive today you have to begin to look
beyond that and see that which doesn't
yet exist and you have to remember that
many of the things that are holding you
down are rules that you don't even
realize are rules and as General Douglas
MacArthur said you're remembered for the
rules you break and right now you're
following rules that you don't even
realize exists and some of those rules
are simply what is okay to dream but I'm
here to tell you the power is in
recognizing that you can do it the power
is in having the arrogance of belief the
power is an understanding that
yes you are going to be capable of
something simply because you are willing
to believe in yourself and that's the
thing it's a willingness to believe in
yourself no one's gonna give it to you
even the people that love you they're
not gonna give you that they are
incapable of giving it to you people
cannot see past their limitations and
they take them for truth people actually
believe the things that have stopped
them will forever not only stop them but
they will stop other people how can they
hope to give you anything but limitation
so if you know that if you know that
even the people that love you what
they're handling was limitation with the
best of [__] intentions with all the
love in the world how are you gonna
break out of that how are you gonna
break past those rules how are you gonna
fight the anxiety that inevitably comes
your way when you think about going
against the grain but my friends until
you can do that you can never get beyond
the [__] that limits you if people
said gravity is what it is we never
would have reached the skate velocity
and yet as a species we have been able
to hurl a [__] rocket into space get
it outside of gravity take us to other
planets that is real only because
somebody said I refuse to be held down
by the most obvious rule that we have
the one that everybody says is beyond
reproach and that is gravity
but even gravity will break under the
weight of a superior will so recognized
as Epictetus said if you want to improve
be content to be thought foolish and
stupid can you be content to be thought
foolish and stupid or do you allow
yourself to be caged to be hemmed in by
what other people think and look I get
it I understand the steam of contempt I
understand how much it sucks when
someone you respect doesn't respect you
but you cannot be anything more than
their captive if you think about what
they think about you if you let yourself
be defined by what other people perceive
of as you then you will forever be
limited by what they give you permission
to do and I don't know about you but
when I was a kid I said when I'm an
adult I will never [__] be told what
to do again I will net
be held back by somebody else I will
define myself I will figure out what I
need to do and I will do it and at the
end of the day that is it my goals drive
my behavior I am NOT held back by what
other people think about me no matter
how [__] intoxicating it is to be
loved you have to decide what you want
more do you want to be you or do you
want to be someone else's reflection of
you
[Music]
as JBS Haldane said the world Shall
Perish not for a lack of wonders but for
a lack of wonder everything around you
is incredible if you're willing to look
at it that way everything around you can
be taken for granted if that's your
perspective but it really is about the
frame that you choose to put around
things I mean simply being alive is
already insane the odds are so stacked
against you not only just being a human
but being a human at this moment in time
this moment in time will breakthroughs
in technology are happening at at an
unprecedented rate where breakthroughs
in medical science are happening at an
unprecedented rate where our ability to
connect with people to empathize with
people all the way around the globe all
of the changes that have happened in
technology and telecom and connectivity
health everything we're living in the
most miraculous time ever but you have
to look at it that way and as Joseph
Campbell said life is a wonderful
wonderful opera except that it hurts so
the question is do you see it is the
beautiful opera or do you just pay
attention to the pain and at the end of
the day you're gonna get what you focus
on they're both true this is both the
most amazing time that's ever happened
ever in recorded history and yet real
things that are terrifying are also
happening but where you put your energy
where you put your attention where you
put your focus is going to determine
what you see and that is the most
fascinating and the most important thing
you have to understand about the way
that your mind works you get when you
focus on if you focus on the things that
are bad they will become
real they will become exaggerated they
will begin to monopolize your thoughts
you'll see them everywhere it's called
the reticular activating system your
mind is literally designed to pay
attention to the things that you notice
once you notice a certain car you see it
everywhere once you notice a certain dog
you see it everywhere once you hear a
certain name for the first time suddenly
realize that that name has been all
around you this entire time but now that
you're focusing on it now that you're
looking for it it is everywhere so
whatever you look for it's gonna be
everywhere if you look for the negative
it will be there but if you look for the
positive it will overwhelm me and as
Joseph Campbell said people say what
we're all seeking as a meaningful life
but I don't think that's what we're
really seeking I think what we're
seeking is the experience of truly being
alive and that's it that's the juice
figuring out that thing that makes you
come alive
it isn't keeping up with the Joneses it
isn't how much you're getting paid it
isn't anything other than for you
something very specific will be
different for everyone but for you find
that thing that makes you come alive
focus on think about it put your time
and attention there shift away from
seeing the pain in the Opera and instead
seeing the wonderment and at all seeing
the glory that is just everything around
you the opportunities the fact that
you're alive once you can see that those
basic things that you take for granted
that you can breathe into the nose and
out through the mouth all of that stuff
once you start seeing how were Acula sit
really is once you start seeing how
we're connected to each other once you
understand that the name of the game
isn't wealth it isn't
fame it isn't ambition or success it's
neuro chemistry it's feeling a certain
way it's finding fulfillment in your
life once you realize that you'll
understand this
a game of attention and you entirely
control what you focus on so choose very
wisely my friends because your life will
literally become the summation of the
things that you look at
you
as Thomas Jefferson said he who knows
best knows just how little he knows this
has been one of the most surreal things
about my experience as an entrepreneur
is that the better I get at it the more
that I do the more I feel lost the more
I feel like there's too much for me to
possibly know and understand and in that
is my power that's literally the source
of my power because I understand that my
journey is one of learning I understand
that as navall Ravi Kant said the
genuine love for reading itself when
cultivated is a superpower the means of
learning are abundant it's the desire to
learn that scarce but if you have that
desire if you cultivate that desire to
learn if you accept that you're in this
big world that is far too big for you to
understand every piece of it but in
recognizing that you don't understand it
all and putting yourself on this quest
to learn obsessively to get better to
fall in love with the actual process of
gaining knowledge if you stay hungry for
that at all times and you don't calcify
your thoughts into Dogma but rather stay
fresh stay naive stay hungry and foolish
to really learn and grow then you
actually obtain power and this is the
part I want people to understand look
past the words and hear what I'm really
saying as you take on the knowledge as
you're learning one thing after another
after another those skills have
practical application and it is that
practical application born of
understanding how little you really know
that allows you to become far more
powerful than the people that think they
know because when they think they know
they stop growing and they think they
know they calcified when they think they
know their thoughts get brittle like
bone and break but
you think you know nothing you think you
have to learn everything you're really
just trying to figure out if something
works if it gets you the result then
those skills become real they become
tested by what you're doing they are
boundless because you're always trying
to find that next thing you're never
self-satisfied you never
self-congratulatory you're simply asking
where do I want to go what skills do I
need to acquire to get there and knowing
that each one of those that you get
brick by brick by brick builds a real
path to where you want to go so fall in
love with the idea that you know nothing
fall in love with the idea that learning
is a superpower fall in love with that
hunger want that want to get better
every day never never be tricked by the
desire to be self-satisfied you never be
tricked by the desire to be great today
never fool yourself into thinking who
you are today is who you can become
I don't care how far you've come I don't
care how many accomplishments are in
your rear view mirror if you fall prey
to that your past will always be bigger
than your future and there's one mandate
that I make of myself and anyone else
that wants to be around me your future
must always be bigger than your past and
the only way for that to be true is to
love how little you really know and to
love how much you can learn
if you just keep going
you
[Music]